OK now before we actually start writing our redux code it's going to be a lot of code in a style that
we might be unfamiliar with even getting started with just writing these producers might be a bit confusing.
So I want to take this time just to show you what each piece will look like before we start writing
it.
So you don't feel overwhelmed with all this new code that we're suddenly writing now let's re explore
our diagram and let's look at are reduces.
So reducer is are a fundamental part of redux because they are essentially what our state is represented
by.
When I say reducer you can pretty much picture it as an object and the root reducer is the big object
that holds all the smaller objects.
So for example our home reducer is just a object that holds properties equal to the data that we want
related to the home.
Anything related to home right that we might want to separate in its own object will be in the home
reducer anything related to the shop.
Right.
Maybe all the shop items are going to be in the shop producer.
Anything related to the user such as the current user or the address or whatever we can imagine with
the user we hold in the user reducer and they're all just objects and they all together compose the
big object that is our root reducer and you can visualize it literally as just a big object with a property
of home that goes to some object with those home data write home properties.
Same thing with the shop.
Same thing with the user and let's say the component wants just the user reducer.
While we would just pass that slice right that object into our component as the property that that component
needs let's say it is current user we can just go from the root reducer get this user object and even
just get that property of current user and pass it into our component.
Now let's say we wanted to update that user the same way that we were doing set stay inside of our app
JF component.
Well we do that with these things called actions and what actions are if we scroll down a little and
look at this new diagram is literally also just an object it's an object that has a type on it with
a string value and then it has a payload that could be what ever we want it to be whatever we want to
update that value to we would just pass that as the payload so our components will fire these actions
right with this net with a name on it that take this shape with a type and a payload that would then
go into our reducer which would then check the type to see whether or not that type of action is applicable
to that reducer because if we want to update the current user only the user reducer cares about that
action the home reducer and the shop producer don't care about it.
And the way that it works is that these reduced hours are going to check against the type.
Right because that string we're just going to match and say oh it does my reducer.
Care about this type of action if it does.
I want you to update the whatever property it is in this case it's the current user property with the
payload on that action.
So these actions update our user reduces with the payload and then our user reducer passes that current
user in as a prop to the component and then the component will render.
However it needs to with the prop and it will continue to always follow this flow.
Let's say the user logs out right from our app component.
We would then fire that action again set current user would be the action.
So the type would be set current user payload would be null this time because the user logged out.
So then our user reduced what update current user with null and then pass that null current user property
into our component so that a computer component can render null as current user or do whatever it wants
with it.
At that point our component cares about that property but our redux does not so if we want to look at
or reduce our code the way that a reducer looks is every reducer is just a function.
The function takes a state and then it takes an action the state is the previous state that it was in
is the state before this new action is going to update it.
So we can even see this as previous or current state and what we would do is with this function it's
going to return an object it's gonna return an object and that object is going to be the new state of
our user reducer it's going to be a new object.
So what we do to determine that is we use what's called a switch statement and a switch statement is
kind of like a really big IF statement.
So we're checking the action type right.
Which is that string value we saw here.
We're gonna check the type if the case is that action type is set current user if that's what that string
of value of type is then we're gonna return a new object where we are going to just spread in current
state but make sure that the current user property is the payload and the reason we always return a
new object is because we want our components to re render as we remember if we pass in the same old
object except the property is is different.
Our components might not re render the way we want them to because of the way that React Components
work React Components only b render if their props are different and the only way that the props are
different is if the object that it has is new.
If we pass the same property i.e. the same object but with a different value like let's say we just
passed in a modified version of current state where we instead did current state DOT current user equals
action payload.
If we did UPS action dot payload if we did this and this is what we return that object is not actually
different and our component will not re update.
Instead we have to always remember to render a new object right as what we pass if none of the action
types match then we just want to return current state because we don't want to render anything because
these this action does not affect our reducer or reducer it does not care.
The reason for this is because our reduced hours are listening to every action and are reducer is only
change if the type is relevant to it and we will do that with our code.
So remember that every reducer is just a function that takes the state and then it takes an action and
then based on the action it determines whether or not it needs to re render and then what it gives out
is just going to be the object and in our case all it is is just a value of current user goes to whatever
that payload was and this is going to be the type of code that we will write inside of our redux.
I just wanted to show you guys this because as we start writing it there will be a lot of this stuff
and I don't want you to be confused as we're building it.
Okay let's start integrating.